WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 4-3	Point Value 14


1. What mechanism does RTS/CTS support?
802.11 wireless
2. Which IEEE WLAN standards specify a data transfer rate of up to 54 Mbps?
802.11 a and g
3. What options may be available for an 802.11n network that are not supported under 802.11g?
mimo
4. True or false? Stations with 802.11ac capable adapters should be assigned to the 5 GHz frequency band.
True and false?
5. What is a BSSID?
Blind ssid
6. What are the advantages of deploying a wireless mesh topology over an ad hoc one?
Better and faster connectivity
7. What type of access point is designed to work with a wireless controller?
enterprise
8. True or false? Suppressing transmission of the WLAN beacon improves security.
Not really  but for sake of argument true
9. What constraints should you consider when planning the placement of an access point?
Coverage and interference
10. What is beamforming?
Creates an almost direct connection
11. Which frequency band is less likely to suffer from co-channel interference?
2.4
12. What is a heat map?
Shows signal leak through of building
13. Widget Corporation has provided wireless access for its employees using several access points located in different parts of the building. Employees connect to the network using 802.11g-compatible network cards. On Thursday afternoon, several users report that they cannot log on to the network. What troubleshooting step would you take first?
See how far the signal is reaching
14. Your office block is hosting a conference event. During the morning coffee break, several guests report that they cannot access their webmail. What is the likely cause?
Too many people on the network
WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 4-4	Point Value 10


1. What is the main advantage of circuit switched networks?
vlans
2. What is an Internet Exchange Point?
Where you exit the local network
3. What bandwidth are T1 and E1 links and why are they different?
T is us e is Europe 5.4mbps
4. Which 10G Ethernet and SONET standards are interoperable?
SDH
5. What distinguishes ATM from Ethernet?
Atm has fixed frame sizes
6. What is the difference between IP and MPLS routing?
Mpls uses labels. Ip uses destination addresses
7. What is the upper limit of a dialup modem's connection speed?
56k
8. What place does VDSL have in terms of access to public networks?
Supports larger bit rates
9. What standard(s) are intended to support "true" 4G mobile wireless services?
LTE and Advanced
10. Assuming that sufficient bandwidth can be provided, what factor limits the usefulness of a microwave satellite internet link? Latency and line of sight and solar flares


WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 4-5	Point Value 10


1. How does PPP work to allow a computer with a dialup modem to connect to the Internet? serial link and multi link

2. What are the three main topologies for implementing a VPN?
Host to host host to sit and site to site
3. What ports and protocols must a firewall allow to support PPTP connections?
Port 1723 and gre
4. How does SSTP improve the security of a VPN connection compared to PPTP?
Secure connection with server using https and digital certificates
5. What IPsec mode would you use for data confidentiality on a private network?
Transport mode
6. What step can you take to prevent unauthorized use of a remote access server?
Devine which user accounts have dial in rights
7. What function does a smart jack serve?
Loopback for provider
8. Why would you use a T1 extender?
Boost the signal
9. What general steps could you take to troubleshoot a leased line exhibiting a high level of interface errors? Ping or nslookup

10. A VPN user is unable to access the company's website by name. The website functions as both an intranet and an extranet. You establish that a connection can be made by IP address. What is a likely cause of this problem? Configuration doesn’t match
WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 5-1	Point Value 13


1. Why do malicious insider threats often pose greater risk than malicious users generally?
Destruction within
2. How do social engineering attacks succeed?
People are vulnerable
3. What type of activity is often a prelude to a full-scale network attack?
NMAP footprinting
4. Other than completely disabling the protocol, how could you mitigate the risk posed by an open port?
Train users
5. A security consultant tells you that the headers used by your organization's database server should be changed. Why might she recommend this?
To avoid being targeted through banner grabbing
6. What is the main difference between WPA and WPA2?
The hand shake process
7. Why might an attacker launch a jamming attack against a wireless access point?
Ddos or deauth for evil twin
8. What is the usual goal of an ARP spoofing attack?
Change routes for man in the middle attack
9. True or false? Software exploits are only possible in commercial software not bespoke software.
false
10. Apart from software crashes, what is a possible effect of a software exploit?
A direct way into the network
11. How might an attacker recover a password from an encrypted hash?
Dictionary attacks rainbow tables or brute force
12. How does a session hijacking attack work?
Takes of the session so the servers think the person has been authorized
13. Why are most network DoS attacks distributed? a message
WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 5-2	Point Value 10


1. Why is subnetting useful in secure network design?
Keeps devisons separated to reduce viruses from being able to spread through entire network
2. What is the purpose of a DMZ?
Keep something or someone completely isolated
3. How can a DMZ be implemented?
Switch settings
4. What distinguishes port address translation from static NAT?
Nat establisher one to one mapping between private and public pat uses port numbers
5. What parameters can a layer 3 firewall ruleset use?
Ip source and destination address protocol type and port numbers
6. What is the default rule on a firewall?
Deny anything
7. Other than attempting to block access to sites based on content, what other security options might be offered by internet content filters?
Time and day and or usage
8. What type of software would you use to protect a web server against application-level attacks?
Host based or application based
9. Why would you deploy a reverse proxy?
Have web applications without exposing servers to internet
10. What sort of maintenance must be performed on signature-based monitoring software?
Definition and signature updates


WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 5-3	Point Value 10


1. What is the purpose of SSO?
Authenticate one time to gain access to multiple things
2. What type of cryptographic hash function offers the strongest security?
SHA
3. What key features are provided by Kerberos?
Single sign on
4. What is a RADIUS client and how should it be configured?
Accepts users connections
5. What types of EAP facilitate the secure use of MS-CHAP for user authentication?
Peap and eap-ttls
6. What is a pre-shared key?
Both devices know the key
7. What is the minimum security mechanism that an access point must support in order to use enterprise authentication?
Wpa
8. How does the "ARP inspection" security feature of a switch mitigate against ARP flooding?
Maintains a trusted database
9. True or false? A switch implementing 802.1X would be described as an "authenticator".
true
10. What is meant by "remediation" in the context of NAC? Client doesn’t meet the health policy
WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 5-4	Point Value 8


1. What document evaluates critical functions, processes, and assets against threats to determine risk?
Business impact analysis
2. What type of security audit performs active testing of security controls?
Penetration test
3. What type of security control provisions resources and procedures to cope with major incidents? Disaster recover plan

4. What technologies can be used to make network infrastructure fault tolerant?
redundancy
5. Why should general security awareness training be developed and delivered separately to role-based security training?
Role specific can be too overwhelming
6. How is the person who first receives notification of a potential security incident designated?
First responder
7. True or false? Notification of data breaches should never be reported outside the organization. false

8. A lawyer is demanding that network logs be provided in a computer-readable format. What principle is being invoked? ediscovery

WICHITA TECHNICAL INSTITUTE

Name: 						Date: 					

Hand-In 5-5	Point Value 6


1. What types of baseline are useful when performing configuration management?
Configuration baseline software baseline
2. In terms of day-to-day tasks, what demonstrates that effective configuration management procedures are in place?
Job logs and sops
3. What type of software could you use to determine IP address utilization?
net mapper
4. What is the difference between physical and logical schematics?
Logical is abstract physical is actual devices 

5. You are analyzing a network schematic and notice the following icon. What does it represent?
router
6. How might an MSA and SOW be used together?
Msa sts standard terms of contract sow establishes tasks and deliverables


